Al jaer has reached out to the Israeli
Army for comment on that video we
haven't received a response yet joining
us on set is Muhammad alasi he's a
political analyst and professor of media
studies at the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies thanks very much indeed
for being with us now the Israeli
military we've seen over the last
several months regularly releases its
own body cam film to show the way that
its operations are progressing in Gaza
how surprising is it that we are seeing
Israeli body cam video which clearly
shows the Israeli military an extremely
bad light well given what we've seen
over the last few months it's not all
that surprising because the israelies
have done this repeatedly actually the
New York Times did an investigation that
they published a few weeks ago uh where
they looked at about 50 uh of these
videos that Israeli soldiers themselves
posted to Tik Tok and other social media
sites and they're they're posting
themselves or recording themselves I
should say uh vandalizing shops and
classrooms they're recording themselves
doing what what an international law is
called an unlawful destruction where
they're just destroying uh civilian uh
infrastructure seemingly for play uh
they're often times mocking Palestinians
where they're sipping cocktails or
smoking hookah pipes while they are
detonating you know putting their
fingers on the The Detonator button to
blow up a residential building and a
whole host of other uh things that
international law experts would say are
clear war crimes so given that larger
backdrop that larger context I can't say
that I'm shocked to see this video
especially given that we know that
there's a genocide case ongoing right
now um Israel is going to be taken to
trial uh and at that hearing um South
Africa presented or cited six separate
uh video so I imagine that this video
will be will be presented as well going
forward I want to draw in your
experience in terms of your background a
professor of media studies given the
circumstances is it surprising that this
video is able to get onto social media
so easily given that one would imagine
any military in the world with body cams
particularly one would imagine have some
sort of secure system for checking that
video before it goes anywhere make sure
that it can't be leaked it's surprising
is it not that actually this stuff is
appearing at all from that standpoint it
is surprising right because as you said
Israel you'd think would be uh U sort of
exercising more control but C clearly
soldiers are are just a lot in many is
posting these videos themselves right
and so some of it may be U sort of
difficult to control when you consider
how many soldiers are in and out and on
the ground in in Gaza now um I think
what we have to remember is that Israel
is losing the public relations War right
there was a survey done um not long ago
that showed that in 42 of 43 countries
Israel's uh favorability rating had gone
down and I think these videos that are
posted to social media that people are
accessing on Tik Tok and Instagram and
other sites are one reason why in fact
their their favorability rating went
down 18 a half points in just three
months which is a massive massive drop I
think Israel knows that now your guess
is as good as mine as to why they're not
doing more given that they know that
they're losing the public relations uh
War to sort of censor this or ensure
that this sort of content doesn't make
it out onto the internet just very
briefly I want to ask you you refer back
to the the the South African case of
genocide that was brought before the
international court of justice and in
part it drew on video evidence that had
been gathered um in the event that there
are cases brought at the international
criminal court with regard to
individuals committing war crimes just
briefly what's the legal status of
videos like that and can they be used to
bring cases and like that I'm not an
international law expert uh but my
understanding is that uh they can and I
think that uh you'll see uh in the
coming uh years uh individual uh
soldiers be be called to account uh for
things that they've that they've posted
and as as I said some of the content is
is quite quite disturbing uh quite uh
shocking uh but maybe not totally
surprising given what we've seen that
this is a pattern and given that there
is a sort of War frenzy inside of the
state of Israel we have to remember that
again according to the the the opinion
polling data the overwhelming majority
of Israelis are fully behind this war
even though they're not uh behind the
prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu they
do support the war effort they feel that
uh the government is is using just the
right amount of force in Gaza or not
enough Force that's 982
98.2% of Israelis 83% of Israelis say
they would like Gaza to be ethnically
cleansed they they want the gazin to be
forced uh uh out of uh Gaza and about
68% of gazin don't want Aid to reach
gazen women children and men so in this
context this war War frenzy um this is
where you're seeing some of these
soldiers acting out and and certainly in
what they think is in the in the Israeli
public interest Muhammad Al musri we
appreciate it thank you very much indeed
thanks well thousands of people have
taken to the Streets of London in a
national demonstration calling for a
ceasefire in
Gaza
2 well protesters have gathered at High
Park Corner in the Center of London
they've marched through the British
Capital to the United States embassy
it's the fifth major Pro Palestine
demonstration in London so far this year
Harry Fett's in London at that protest
so this is a weekly event Harry what are
people telling
you well yes it is it's it's certainly
in these in terms of these very big
protests it's a bit less than weekly but
uh it is one of the another very big one
after the last one we saw a couple of
weeks weeks ago the organizers here
saying uh up to 250,000 people again
hard for us to uh certify that but
certainly it's in its many tens of
thousands people have been streaming
past us here for more than an hour and a
half now uh close to the American
Embassy here south of the river 10s it's
also the first protest such as this
since the remarks by Rishi sunak and
Prim Minister on the steps of 10 Downing
Street in which he talked about
extremism he talked about mob r threat
to democracy calling on police to more
actively police these demonstrations as
opposed to manage them a lot of the
speeches from the stage a lot of the
people we've spoken to have referenced
that in terms of adding to their desire
to be out here really in defiance of
that as well as of course Marching for
the cause of Palestinians in Gaza I'm
joined by one of the protesters here
Margie Manfield thank you very much for
stopping to talk to us why are you here
today I'm here because children are
being killed and children are being
starved and a mother and a grandmother
and it's not right they should stop
killing
children children deserve to be free
they deserve to have equal rights and
dignity their homes are being destroyed
their schools are being destroyed their
universities are being
destroyed this is so peaceful the the
marches are so peaceful they're
Multicultural there's people with babies
toddlers children
dogs uh old people like me there's
people in their hundreds and thousands
and are here to say we're not terrorists
we want Justice we want there to be
equality for everybody and what did you
make of of the remarks from the Prime
Minister and some of the other messaging
we've been getting from government about
no-o areas for Jewish people and all the
rest of it I I think that is incorrect I
think the his statement was incorrect I
think
it's divisive and deliberately divisive
it's to to say calling to stop killing
children is making people frightened why
is it making people frightened it should
make them want to come out as well and
say stop killing children we are hearing
one slogan right now from The River To
The Sea which many Jews do find
offensive I mean but people we've spoken
to here say that it doesn't mean what
what some think it means so cry for
Liberation just as the slave songs of
the 19th century like Sweet Chariot that
they sing at rugby matches that's based
on a slave song it's it's about
Liberation for everybody and they should
be free and why is that offensive when
Lut which is the Israeli main political
party their Charter has the reverse of
that that that statement it says from
the sea to the river there will be no
Palestine it will all be Israelis so why
is it offensive to say people that were
there indigenous why they can't have a
nation state as well why don't they have
equal rights okay Mai thank you very
much we didn't get to it but Marie's
also uh half Scottish half Palestinian
her mother uh fled uh historic Palestine
uh in 1948 so uh just one of the many
faces of this March that we've seen
today one other point to mention uh the
police the Metropolitan Police in its
statement said it would police this
March uh according to the law not
according to to uh what some people may
wish were the law Harry thank you very
much indeed Harry fet in
London